The "black pill" is an extension of [[Redpill ideology]] and blue pill analogy. There is some disagreement among researchers and journalists over which beliefs are "red pill" and which are "black pill", and whether the black pill ideology is a distinguishing belief of the incel ideology or if there are self-identified incels who do not subscribe to black pill ideas. Some researchers and journalists use the term "red pill" to refer to the set of beliefs commonly held by men's rights' activists, and the term "black pill" to summarize the incel ideology as a whole. Hoffman et al. have said that "'Taking the black pill' is critical to the incel identity, since it means recognizing 'inceldom' as a permanent condition". Aja Romano writing for Vox has said, "what unites all incels is something known as the black pill". Researchers at the Anti-Defamation League (ADL) write that there are some incels who believe in the red pill and others who believe in [[Blackpill ideology]].

The "black pill" generally refers to a set of beliefs generally only held by incel communities, which include biological [determinism](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Determinism "Determinism"), [fatalism](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fatalism "Fatalism"), and [defeatism](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Defeatism "Defeatism") for [unattractive](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Unattractiveness "Unattractiveness") people. These beliefs are supported by continued reference on incel forums to scientific studies in fields such as psychology, sociology, and evolutionary biology. Believers are referred to as being "blackpilled". The black pill has been described by _Vox_ correspondent Zack Beauchamp as "a profoundly [sexist](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sexism "Sexism") ideology that ... amounts to a fundamental rejection of women's sexual emancipation, labeling women shallow, cruel creatures who will choose only the most attractive men if given the choice". The term was first popularized on the blog _Omega Virgin Revolt_, where it represented a belief that the entire social system was broken and that one's place in the system was not something any individual could change. One who has "taken the black pill" has adopted the belief that they are hopeless, and that their lack of success romantically and sexually is permanent regardless of any changes they might try to make to their physical appearance, personality, or other characteristics