The cyclist is a parasite. The cyclist believes that the law is an absolute system which alters reality, rather than the fragile unsteady enforcement of the state through a monopoly on violence that it truly is. The cyclist rejects the truth. The cyclist is ignorant of the realpolitik enforced by physics and biology. The cyclist is a rodent in a world of apex 4000 pound predators that can move five times faster than him. The cyclist is arrogant. The cyclist believes he is equivalent to a vehicle. The cyclist demands that superior organisms must diverge around him. The cyclist is delusional. The cyclist suffers a superiority complex. The cyclist believes that his way of being is somehow superior to the vehicle, despite his traversal and existence being impossible without a world of roads, infrastructure, and pollution upholding the fragile flat environment he would not survive without. The cyclist is a pest. The cyclist lives to irritate others. The cyclist will present a sweat riddled fertility raping humiliation ritual containing all of the downsides of pedestrian vulnerability, all of the dangers of vehicular travel, and none of the benefits of either as a solution that functional human beings should conform to. The cyclist is an archetype created by polyester poisoning, testicle torture, and the implicit constant fear of existence itself. This way of being is one of nebbish timidity, unbridled arrogance, and complete disregard for the laws of nature and God. This freakish lifestyle is upheld by the misguided insidious traffic laws struggling to squeeze in a spiritual half measure. Too fast for sidewalks, too slow for the roads. A small souled response to relentless momentum, a plea to make things smaller, make things safer, make things more mundane. Fuck the cyclist. The bus driver is a hero.