A blog dedicated to expose societal inversions to make you strong, wise, intelligent, and powerful, and to help you find that divine spark of righteous indignation to join the cause and pursue the right path.

Topic covered:

topics I will be covering, I plan on doing extensive content on vaccines especially, nutrition and health, geoengineering, religion/mythology/spirituality/occult, politics, corruption, detoxification, environmental toxins, and any other issue or general conspiracies that I see as an inversion of the truth. These inversions are absolutely everywhere, and I think if people really see how common the pattern is, they will approach other issues or topics with the right presuppositional perspectives and distrust in generally accepted narratives or collectively accepted truths being peddled towards them.

---

Intro:

Inversionism is the ethos of the elite to put it simply. Ethos generally means the code of good conduct for an individual or group, but in this case, it's the code of villainous conduct that diabolically manifests in our everyday lives to harm us and our families, and steer humanity down a dark path that ultimately ends with transhumanism, degeneracy, hedonism, hyper-materialism, and spiritual suffering.

Inversion is the elite's overarching intent in the messages and dictates they deliver to us through political talking heads and authority, the contrived science they peddle as truth through captured journals, the atrocious health advice they give to damage our wellbeing and devolve us, the justice they never deliver to those who truly deserve it, and ultimately the doctrine that stems from their occult belief systems where all that was once considered good, moral, holy, and true in antiquity, is flipped on its head for a heinous agenda to subjugate humanity to their will and bring about a new golden age for themselves where they unify with technology and become gods on earth.

They sadistically want to create an environment where only the strong and wise survive, and this is through putting an immense and near inescapable selection pressure on the populace with an unfathomable number of vectors, especially via environmental toxins and exposures. It's essentially eugenics but with extra steps to ensure it remains subversive enough and not entirely obvious to those who are uninformed, giving the elites the veil of plausible deniability to hide behind this perception of their "ineptitude" or bureaucracy, with little to no perceptions of bad intent underlying the decisions being made or the advice being given by them. They believe if they make their plans open and public via their NGOs, declassifications, and other means of disclosure, then they are absolved of the negative karma for enacting such plans. They consider our inaction as consent, which it is. When you stay quiet because of fear of being censored, ridiculed by friends, losing your job, or some other negative outcome, you are then condoning their actions through fear and silence. All it takes for evil to prevail is for good people to do and say nothing.

All too often I hear the ideological anti-conspiracy complicity theorists try to explain away the overt and obvious agendas as just human derived stupidity, bureaucratic negligence, minor corruption, ignorant carelessness and ineptitude, or that they are actual moral in their intent and just made mistakes (which is incredibly naive and unfathomable), and I think those perspectives have been carefully implanted into people through the media/TV shows/movies/etc that we've consumed for decades, along with our Rockefeller derived education system, to give the powers that be just enough space and deniability to ensure there isn't a unified populace revolting against them for the endless crimes they've committed against us knowingly and maliciously.

Since COVID, this perspective of ineptitude or good faith has been thoroughly obliterated for many people, and the elites either want to be this intentionally overt and evil to radicalize the populace for some ultimate great awakening type of luciferian agenda NWO, or they overplayed their hand and underestimated how many people would catch onto their plans and now it's blowing up in their face. In either case, I'm sure many of you are now wondering just how many other things have been a lie, and I hope I can be one of many to show you these lies. l will show you just how many things or commonly accepted "truths" are complete and utter inversions of reality for the same underlying occult agendas. 

We all watched the government, corporations, and everyone in between enact directives that were the complete antithesis of what they should have done to ensure people remained healthy and didn't die. Instead, it's like they did everything they possibly could to ensure the maximal amount of harm was delivered to the people. Between the fraudulent use of RT-PCR to game the COVID data to create this illusion of calamity and fear, the financial incentives for hospitals to murder people with intubation and remdesivir, the censorship of real quality medical advice like ensuring high levels of Vit D or taking zinc, the rushed toxic gene therapy vaccine with no long term safety trials and an abhorrent track record in animal studies, the closing down of small businesses to funnel all our money to the world's largest corporations and the subsequent massive transfer of wealth to the top, and the disgusting way they've treated those who we're injured by the vaccine or refused it. It should be very obvious to everyone that they were not acting in good faith, but instead acting with foresight and malice to not only destroy America, but to subjugate the entire world to their will for their great reset new world order, while also enacting long planned measures to reduce the world population, specifically through targeting fertility.

We all have to understand that this isn't just a battle over politics, scientific truth, or whatever else. This is a battle for your mind and soul. This is a war with unseen forces, and we cannot continue playing their placated game of self-censorship and nerfing our own message to try and get normies to accept whatever it is we're trying to convince them of. We need to be blunt, direct, and brutally honest, holding nothing back, regardless of who we are talking to. If you think vaccines cause autism, say it. If you think EMF is harmful to human health, SAY IT. Don't argue as if you're skeptical and uncertain when you're not. I definitively think vaccines cause autism, and I'll argue it to anyone with fervor and without fear. You have to be direct and fight for what you believe in, or we're going to remain in the upside down world full of uncertainty and equivocations.