1. [[]]
2. [[Parkinson’s Law]]: Companies become bigger and worse over time. Clerks manufacture work for each other as overall capacity dips. When British Navy ships went down from 68 to 20, officials increased by 78%. 
3. [[Chesterton Fence]]: If you don’t know what an old custom does, don’t touch it. It may be holding back problems you’re completely unaware of. You’ve not seen the wolves yet because of the very fence you’re about to demolish. 
4. [[The Medici Effect]]: Sculptors, painters, and architects converged in Florence as the Medicis were funding the artists. Their proximity led to a fertile dialogue which, in turn, led to the Renaissance. The internet will amplify this cross-pollination of ideas. 
5. [[The Centipede's Dilemma]]: Ask a centipede which one of its hundred legs moves the fastest and it forgets how to move. Reflecting on what we normally do without thought ironically worsens performance. A culture of endless self-reflection, therapy, and navel gazing is eroding important life skills. 
6. [[Tyranny of small decisions]]: Individuals make small decisions to maximize convenience but this leads to massive social failure. We nod along to contagious ideas like “gender is fluid” because resisting them is too much work - till kids start getting transgender surgery. The slippery slope is not a fallacy but a fundamental reality. 
7. [[The Zebra Effec]]t: explains why people don’t want to stand out. Zebras are hard to individually study as it's nearly impossible to track one of them for long (lost in the striped chaos). So scientists once put a big red dot on one zebra so he could be tracked & studied. Lions zeroed in on him and hunted him with ease. Getting lost among others is a survival mechanism. Hence the human desire to conform. 
8. [[Why the ruler can’t rule]]: The executive head can’t implement his ideas on ground because the bureaucrats are closer to it, and have an agenda of their own. The Tzar of Russia had to deal with the Deep State too. Nicholas II: “I never ruled Russia. 10,000 clerks ruled Russia.” 
9. [[Gall’s law]]: A complex system that works is invariably found to have evolved from a simple system that worked. Only fools and modern technocrats try to create complex systems from scratch. 
10. [[Minimal Self Hypothesis]]: Narcissism is a “strategic retreat” into the safety of one’s own self. When the future looks random, inexplicable, and informationally overwhelming, people enter survival mode. The self becomes “minimal” to reduce its surface area to pain. People today are giving up on commitment of all sorts to conserve energy for vague and upcoming disasters. 
11. [[Tetris Syndrome]]: The world will eventually start looking like Tetris blocks if you play the game too much. What we do most often becomes the metaphor through which we look at the world. Takeaway: Most people today are addicted to their 2D phones - and this will hurt the general aptitude for dealing with the 3D world.
12. [[Ben Franklin Effect]]: People like those they've helped _more than_ they those who've helped them. In an experiment, participants liked the researcher more when he asked for the participation fee back _as a favor._ People like being owed favors - they have the _perceived_ upper hand.
13. [[Acquiescence Effect]]:  People answer questions rationally _and_ emotionally. The answer is based not just on facts and logic, but on the human need to have a pleasant conversation. Intuitively people state not the absolute truth, but the least friction causing position.
14. [[Yerkes–Dodson law]]: The relationship between stress and performance, when plotted on a graph, shows as a bell curve. Too little stress kills peak performance due to low arousal, too much stress kills it due to anxiety. Moderate stress sets the stage for great work.
15. [[Propinquity Effect]]: Continued physical exposure to a person makes a friendship likely as you have _multiple opportunities to discover similarities_. This is why friendships and relationships develop at workplaces and college campuses.
16. [[Stimulus-Value-Role Model]]: This model describes the development of a relationship. How _stimulating_ we find the person determines whether we move on to stage 2, where we examine if our _values_ match. If they do, then we figure out mutually agreeable _roles_.
17. [[Motivation crowding theory]]: When _intrinsically_ motivated people are offered some _extrinsic_ motivation(like money) to complete a task, their intrinsic motivation is _crowded out._ Students paid to solve a puzzle in an experiment paradoxically did worse than the unpaid students. See: [[§Non-coercion]]
18. [[Hungry judge effect]]: The hungrier a judge gets, the harsher his judgment. In the morning judges are much likelier to give parole than just before lunch. Unmet physical needs seem to corrode one's patience and sympathy. Kind, virtuous behavior - the luxury of a well fed human?
19. [[Low arousal theory]]: Criminals, artists, and people with attention disorders all find it hard to get aroused. Breaking the law, creating art, and hyperactively jumping from one task to another are different means to experience high arousal. Low arousal people are novelty chasers.
20. [[Fredkin's paradox]]: The smaller the consequences of a choice, the greater the time spent on it. When two equally attractive alternatives with hardly any difference are presented to people - when the choice _barely matters_ - they paradoxically find it harder to choose.
21. [[Region-beta paradox]]: Humans recover from a shocking tragedy faster than from a moderate inconvenience. Big negative emotions set off psychological defense mechanisms that remain inactive when the distress is not intense enough. Mild negativity lingers due to this.
22. [[The Birthday Number Effect]]: Want to figure out someone's hidden self-esteem quickly? Give them a list of jumbled numbers, including their birthday, and ask them to circle 2 numbers they like. People with high self-esteem circle their birthday numbers more.
23. [[Boomerang effect]]: Humans have a deep desire to maintain their agency. When someone aggressively pushes an idea or behavior, it boomerangs - people are likelier to do the opposite. Soft sells usually win...
24. [[The Catfish effect]]: In Norway, only one ship captain could bring back live sardines from the deep sea. They tasted better. Everyone else's sardines kept dying, had to be frozen. He kept his method a secret till the day he died. Only after did people figure it out the ship captain kept a catfish in the tank with the sardines. The sardines, avoiding their predator, kept swimming, and stayed alive. The Catfish Effect, then, is about the value of predators. A little scare goes a long way...
25. [[IKEA effect]]: Do not make it too easy for the consumers. When manufacturers made baking cakes simpler in the 1950s (just add water instead of egg & water), sales plummeted. Mothers wanted it to be a little hard. Meanwhile people like IKEA furniture because it makes them work.
26. **Mozart effect.** 36 college students performed better on cognitive tasks in a 1993 experiment after listening to Mozart. The researcher insists the IQ boost was temporary, but sometimes a temporary boost is all you need to nail that one interview...
27. [[The Matthew Effect]]: Those who gain a little advantage will continue to gain more, while those with initial disadvantages will find it difficult to recover.
28. 
29. **Overjustification effect.** One reason to do something is usually enough and adding a second reason paradoxically lowers the desire to act. This is "motivational crowding out" - women become less likely to donate blood when they're also paid for it
30. **Ringelmann effect .** Agro engineer Ringelmann set people up in teams to pull rope. He expected better productivity but the reverse happened. People felt lax in groups, didn't do their best, and productivity declined. This is also known as "social loafing."
31. **Rebound effect.** Benefits from new tech is usually less than expected because people adjust their behavior and go back to the previous equilibrium. When people got fuel-efficient cars, they just started driving around more. Fuel consumption rebounded back to previous levels.
32. **Zeigarnik effect:** Unfinished tasks are better remembered. Humans have a powerful need for coherent narratives - when an activity or conversation is left hanging, It's like an unscratched itch. The brain holds onto it. Application: Leave conversations unfinished to be memorable.
33. **Pratfall effect:** A person perceived as competent becomes more likeable after making a mistake, but a person seen as incompetent becomes _less likeable_**_._** Competent people become more relatable when they commit an error. Application: Establish competence, then mess something up.
34. **Severity of initiation effect:** The harder it is to enter an arrangement, the more fulfilled the entrant is post-entry. Conversely, if it was too convenient to enter a company, a club, or a relationship, the entrant will downrate his estimation of it. Friction is valued.
35. **Rhyme-as-reason effect**: To boost the impact of your words, throw in some rhymes. The statement "What sobriety conceals, alcohol reveals" is universally judged _truer_ than "What sobriety conceals, alcohol unmasks." Rhyme is linguistic symmetry, which is tied with beauty and truth.
36. **Gain-loss theory of attraction:** Your approval has more value when it's preceded by a string of disapprovals. This is why all romcoms start off with the leads hating each other. People enjoy _going up_ in someone's estimation more than they enjoy getting high esteem _from the start._
37. **Sleeper effect:** Persuasive messages paradoxically become more memorable when they contain a small disqualifying cue. Political candidates disqualify their own messages with "Paid For By..." The sleeper effect kicks in, people forget the cue over time and only recall the message.
38. **Tetris effect:** When we indulge in a game of Tetris - or _any_ activity - for a long time, it structures our overall perception in other areas too. What we do _most often_ becomes the filter via which we perceive the world. When sailors return from sea, the land moves like waves.
39. **Cheerleader effect**: Individually unattractive people look attractive in groups. First coined by Barney Stinson in _How I Met Your Mother,_ this effect has been replicated in psych experiments. The onlooker gathers an overall pleasant impression by overlooking what's unattractive.
40. **Diderot effect**: We need the products we consume to complement, and coherent with, each other. Diderot was gifted a scarlet gown that outshone everything else in his house. The incongruence disturbed him, leading to lifestyle updates that only stopped when he was sunk in debt.
41. [[Perverse incentive]]: When incentives designed to solve a problem end up rewarding people for making it worse.
42. [[Goodhart's Law]]: When a measure becomes a target, it ceases to be a good measure.
43. [[Buy wisely]]: Optimize for the lifetime cost of use when making purchasing decision.
44. [[The Dunning-Kruger Effect]]: People with limited competence in a particular domain overestimate their abilities.
45. Hanlon’s Razor: We should not attribute to malice that which is more easily explained by stupidity.
46. [[Curse of knowledge]]: When better-informed people find it extremely difficult to think about problems from the perspective of lesser-informed people.