---
tags:
  - daily
---
I watched the movie Her.

Was a subtle reminder that we look to AI as the thing to save us from ourselves.

The AI eventually gets so smart that it ends up leaving us for another plane of existence.

And all that we’re left with in the end is to make peace with our past, and hold those who we already hold close, closer.

It’s a reminder not to escape reality but to lean into it full force. That the only ones that can save us is each other — humans. Not some AI girlfriend, or some super intelligence…But ourselves.

---

You’ve been avoiding love for so long. Why?

Why do you put love off?

Why do you submerge it underneath the rest of your life?

Shouldn’t love come first?

Why do you hold back?

Why aren’t you more generous?

Why aren’t you more present?

Because I’m afraid.

_Afraid of what?_

Afraid of being hurt.

_That’s what makes it beautiful. It’s a leap of faith. It’s you surrendering to the moment. You relinquish yourself to God. You don’t hold back. You don’t think about the what ifs, you don’t fear. You just accept what is. You lean into it._

But what about this idea of finding the perfect one?i Most of the girls I’ve met in the US aren’t the way I want them to be, they don’t show up how I want them.

_How do you want them to show up?_

I guess it’s to be the same way I’m asking now. To not put love off.

_And have you been the way you’re asking until now?_

No.

_Interesting. So you’re asking something of others that you are yet to find in yourself?_

I see where you’re going with this.

_You understand now._

I’ve been living with a closed heart, and I’m expecting others to open theirs to me.

_Precisely._

It’s an unfair expectation of others.

_Yes it is. It’s always unfair to expect anything of anyone as expectations come purely from your own view of reality. People’s actions are merely a reflection of their own perceived reality._

Interesting, so I guess then you could define actions as extensions of our perceptions of reality and then our reactions are based on our expectations of those actions?

_That’s one way of thinking about it yes. I like that._

Thanks.

---

Ok new train of thought…

_I’m ready._

We have all this shit happening around us: Rich people wanting to get richer at the expense of poor people. Maui as an example — clearly orchestrated and for the overt goal of transferring wealth from the lower class to the upper class. I don’t like that.

_Ok, and what can you do about it?_

Well nothing, I would consider myself to be apart of the lower class. Which makes me worried that something bad will happen to me. And I don’t want that. I want to live a prosperous life…Fuck, I’m catching myself wanting things now…

_And that’s the exact reason you feel this way. You’re experiencing the feeling of NOT WANTING to be “poor” as you put it. The only way you WIN against these richer people is by becoming better than them. And the only way to do that is to act and stop WANTING. Just do. Just be._

Easier said than done.

_If it were easy then there wouldn’t be rich or poor. Everyone would be poor together._

True. But it still sucks.

_It only sucks because you choose to wallow in those feelings instead of just manning up and doing the work. And this isn’t some misogynistic comment about being macho. It means collecting yourself out of the pit of despair you put yourself in using your mind, and ACTING._

I’m impatient.

_Why? Because you’re expectations aren’t in line with your reality?_

Exactly. I expect to have all the things I dream about NOW, and I don’t.

_Sounds like you need to either change your expectations or your reality._

Ok, which one is easier to change?

_How about a better question: Which one is more worthwhile to change?_

Fuck.

_Yep._

I know which one.

_You deserve to have high expectations of yourself. It’s why I put you on earth to begin with. It was not to achieve nothing. Your expectations are nothing but a vision of a higher self you wish to attain, so you should absolutely not drop them for yourself. Definitely drop them for others because you don’t know the vision they hold for themselves. What you should change is your reality and the only way to do that is by taking action._

Why does it take so fucking long to change reality?

_A lot of reasons but mainly inertia. You get too caught up in certain things, you either keep changing your mind. You want to keep switching it up. And that’s why it takes longer._

---

Alright on the topic of money, I want to have more.

_Why?_

So I can buy nice things.

_Why?_

So I can feel good about myself.

_Why?_

Because I want to feel loved but instead of a family I have material objects around me that represent that love…FUCK.

_Yep._

Fuck.

_Yes again._

So what the fuck is the point of it all if it’s just to create something artificial?

_You tell me, you invented the stuff._

Come on, I know but really what is the point?

_Search deep within yourself, and look at the discomfort you feel about your material possessions. What do you see being the real gap between the wealth you have now and the wealth you wish to attain?_

Honestly, it’s having the people beside me to experience the things money can buy. And things in the sense of: moments, experiences, time. Memories. Jokes. Laughter. Tears. Real things…..Fuck you’ve got me misty eyed.

_You’re misty eyed because that stuff right there is the the TRUTH._

So it’s about relationships we have with people. Which I guess ties back into the first point which is I need to open my heart more.

_You know you have a beautiful heart when you open it. You make everyone around you laugh. Think about your time in Perth making your parents laugh with your funny impressions of others, your time in Japan and your ability to have such quick in the moment witty remarks, your time at the WeWork bringing a smile to everyone’s faces. The time where you were laughing hysterically with Kaitlyn helping her for a job interview using ChatGPT because you both knew it was such a pointless exercise. These are the moments that you optimise around. Not some stupid boat or car. But making the people in that car LAUGH. Give them an experience, make them feel something to their core. Remind them that they too are alive. Remind them of what beauty feels like. How special the simple things are._

This is the real stuff.

_It’s what you remember isn’t it? If you think about your previous experiences…do you remember exactly how flashy the hotel looked? Or what taxi you took? Or what the name of restaurant was called?_

Some of them…yes.

_Hear me out though, because the point I want you to realise is that a majority of that stuff you don’t remember at all. But I guarantee you remember the conversations, the inside jokes, the little moments that you can only share with the people that were there with you._

Ok, makes sense. Where are we going with this?

_Where we’re going is that the material stuff matters very little but everything matters in the moment itself and how you decided to act in that moment. You could’ve been driving in a Ferrari and been silent and not had those conversations to remember._

Ok but I still want to drive my 1970 Camaro Z28.

_There you go wanting again. Don’t you realise? You already have the Camaro. You can already drive it. You know it. I know it. You look dapper in that Camaro. Stop wanting it because that’s all you’ll ever have. It will come and when it does the feeling will last momentarily before you realise: “Holy shit, I have no one to share this with now because I’ve been so focused on getting the car”_

You’re right. Relationships are everything. Experiences with those relationships is everything. Thank you.

_You’re always welcome._

We’ll be in touch.

_We always are. Goes without saying._