
**Interview with Jimmy Cantuu - Manobyte**

Enterprise deals with Hubspot.

Same sales cycle - Tray specific developers.

Re-sell and host.

80-90% custom integrations, migration (pardot, marketo)

much more than putting a CRM together, use Tray to stitch things together.

IT Consulting > Moving to management consulting (6-9-12 months each)

As if today: 3 SAs, primarily working post-sale once projects launch. Been jumping in pre-sales.

Trying to double in revenue in 2024. need technical folks to own. help customers get deals across.

Definitely software adjacent -- need to know the softwares better than themselves.

SE role -- intellectually stimulating. tech aspect. strategy. problem solving.

Lucidchart, visual diagrams, whimsical.

2 sellers - SDR and AE.

Jimmy is primarily closing deals.

Hiring 2 account execs, 

What the features are:

- Why do people migrate off?

moving up market

Hubspot certifications. Advanced certifications. Take exams.

Salesforce integration.

70%/30% , 60%/40%

base: $80 - $90k
ote: $150k

working on a deal with $1.6M, % of deal 

culture survey link
SE role
upload direct resume
two links to fill out:

Talk with Kevin -- pitch the dream of Manobyte.

Huge potential for Manobyte.

---


*Talk with Dan Borgia -- Piatti*

Write a list of tidbits for a field. A list that one needs to perfect before they can ascend to the next level.

Apprentice to Journeyman = C to A
Journeyman to Master = A to A+

[[Apprenticeship Patterns - Oshineye & Hoover]]

This ties into the concept of having two categories of training: one to get C players to A players and one to get A players to A+ players.

The tidbits: “wax on wax off” is to get C to A. It’s the maxims that one needs to perfect before they can become the best. Then you can focus on the complexities. Get the technique right first.