---
tags:
  - daily
created: 2019-01-01
---
- Have patience. People are not half as ambitious as you. Everyone has other priorities over earning profit. If everyone thought like you did then everyone would be running their own companies and there would be no employees.
- People are complex and you will be met with resistance. Learn to judge people by their character, pay attention to tiny details. How many red flags have appeared to you in the past and you've still decided to go ahead and work with the person? Don't wait for big fuck ups, look for the little hints as they often reflect a deeper and larger flaw at play. Knowing this though you can position yourself as someone who can earn profit for companies. Attune yourself to read people.
- Walking through the streets of Melbourne after coming back from LA feels different to the first time. I am filled with an air of confidence, not cockiness but reassurance that I can achieve anything I put my mind to. I see the city with a new lens. This place is my home and though I'll never work here anytime soon, I'll never forget where it got me. I have a deep appreciation. In my head I'm like “Fuck yeah. I love my life. I'm the king”
- I don't pretend that I don't miss my ex-girlfriend, but I know in my heart that the harder I work in the USA the more I'm abiding to my promise to her – that I would fulfil my life mission and become a man of value. Only once I achieve that, can I have a truly deep and profound relationship. Whether it's with her or someone else, I will bring my true masculine essence and live an honest, loving and connected relationship. Part of me misses what I left behind, but I use that energy to fuel me: That I create a business so successful that I can decide where I go and when I go. And bring the people I love with me. Absolute freedom to roam and explore and grow.
- Traveling the world has opened my eyes up to new possibilities and frontiers. There is a fundamental lack of people who have increasing sales as their main priority. Everyone is so worried about themselves and their appearances that they don't care about tangible results. Position yourself as someone who delivers that. Master sales and marketing processes, apply your engineering skills to automate them. Work on creating amazing products. Focus on creating tangible, scalable assets that can be transferred across businesses. Build your personal brand as someone who delivers results. You'll be a valuable addition to any organisation.
- Be careful within university to not step on any toes, always cover your iron fist in a velvet glove. Best to do the majority of your work external to the university while leveraging their network to generate traffic. Achieve results outside of the university and ensure you maintain appearances within.
- The startup scene is full of big talkers, if you can't beat them, join them. Despite talk of wanting to innovate, people are scared and reluctant to, just join along in this. Innovate in organisations with measurable outcomes like profitability. However, keep the relationship going with those fluffy organisations, and ensure you do not outshine the master, this means not doing anything that's radically different to current processes. Just do what they already do and gasbag every now and then.
- One thing that I have realised about my Shadow is that in my childhood my mother was very smothering with her love. The problem that this generated in my later years is that in my romantic relationships I grow very dependent on receiving love from my partner. When I broke up with my girlfriend, because I am conditioned to receive love, I thought that I could not live without it. I grew dependent on her for validation and comfort. I have now realised that validation and comfort are entirely up to me. I've learnt to love myself first before I can love others. I am responsible for my own happiness. Which I have realised is not some other unachievable state, true happiness rarely occurs for long periods of time. The definition of long term happiness is just a lack of pain, and my chief aim in life is to reduce as much pain for myself and others as possible.