---
tags:
  - daily
---
The concept of dipping in and dipping out. You make a good gamble that's outside of the norm, then getting the fuck out of there. One hit wonders who made a great song, then dipped to not be in the noise because they had made enough money that they didn't need to work anymore. These people work all their lives to eventually not work. They work hard, to not work hard. Versus people who work medium and keep working medium. What explains this? 

It's sort of very much about what I want to do, it's about being the fucking best, about mastering a craft, in secret. Then absolutely unleashing your genius onto the world, no one has ever seen something so amazing and beautiful, because they neglected the path of mastery. You dazzle them with your artistic mastery, you make a shit ton of material earnings, probably realize it wasn't what they expected it to be. It's what they thought they wanted. Then they retreated back into their study to do the silent work, but now I'm validated that my art is valued in a world outside myself. It makes me content in my genius. that I deserved to be a little selfish, and introverted. Because I retreat into myself to learn more, to bring more, show more, and so I'm really identified with myself -- I know that I'm a capable individual, capable of genius and learning. BUT, I also can't live life wondering what others think of me, I have to prove it to myself. We look to others to find evidence of and validate our genius. Only once, though -- that's all you need. One time confirmation. I need to prove to myself through some sort of material appreciation, some externally held opinion that "I'm good, and liked.", to truly know I'm good. I need one material peak (to know I've still got it) on the graph, and then I can spend the rest of my life in spiritual bliss, because I've secured the bag and so I don't have to work for money, and then I can retreat into my art, but this time I'm more present because I'm not letting basic survival needs dictate my intellect; my craft. I'm not thinking about money and letting it influence my work (because I'm acting from a root of fear, versus love)...that's what happens when you're poor. 