
**Interview with Jimmy Cantuu - Manobyte**

Enterprise deals with Hubspot.

Goal is to be #1 hubspot partner in the ecosystem.

most trusted - people come to us because they know tManobyte can handle the use. 

Sharks (Succesfful, honest, adaptable, responsibe, knowledgable)

Size -- what size? 22 employees. Hubspot has gone out to get big agencies, fails. Fails becuase big agencies aren't committed to ecosystem. Manobyte can grow and scale to be a big system integrator focused on Hubspot.

$2.5 M rev, goal is $4.6M, 3 years $10M, 5-6 years 100M company. Growth organic, no investors, self-funded growth. Grow base of team members.

1. big jumps periodically, inflexion point. Elite hubpsot partner (highest tier of hubspot partner), increased number of leads coming from hubspoit direct reps. need SEs due to volume. to grow Kevin needs to step back and work on managing the business not working in the business.
2. Hubspot is changing their biz model; currently they send 25% of their biz to solution partner, shifting to 75%. huge uplift in lead volume. expect that volume to increase. charted as top 10 partners to watch out of 1000s. built a good brand name.
3. tray has been letting go of people and getting rid of people they're going after. Another stream of income from integration partners.
4. 


Same sales cycle - Tray specific developers.

Re-sell and host.

80-90% custom integrations, migration (pardot, marketo)

much more than putting a CRM together, use Tray to stitch things together.

IT Consulting > Moving to management consulting (6-9-12 months each)

As if today: 3 SAs, primarily working post-sale once projects launch. Been jumping in pre-sales.

Trying to double in revenue in 2024. need technical folks to own. help customers get deals across.

Definitely software adjacent -- need to know the softwares better than themselves.

SE role -- intellectually stimulating. tech aspect. strategy. problem solving.

Lucidchart, visual diagrams, whimsical.

2 sellers - SDR and AE.

Jimmy is primarily closing deals.

Hiring 2 account execs, 

What the features are:

- Why do people migrate off?

moving up market

Hubspot certifications. Advanced certifications. Take exams.

Salesforce integration.

70%/30% , 60%/40%

base: $80 - $90k
ote: $150k

working on a deal with $1.6M, % of deal 

culture survey link
SE role
upload direct resume
two links to fill out:

Talk with Kevin -- pitch the dream of Manobyte.

Huge potential for Manobyte.

---


*Talk with Dan Borgia -- Piatti*

Write a list of tidbits for a field. A list that one needs to perfect before they can ascend to the next level.

Apprentice to Journeyman = C to A
Journeyman to Master = A to A+

[[Apprenticeship Patterns - Oshineye & Hoover]]

This ties into the concept of having two categories of training: one to get C players to A players and one to get A players to A+ players.

The tidbits: “wax on wax off” is to get C to A. It’s the maxims that one needs to perfect before they can become the best. Then you can focus on the complexities. Get the technique right first.

The curse of the midwit. horseshoe theory, implying that the groups with low intelligence and high intelligence often chose to follow the same goals while being guided by different reasoning. Both ends of the bell curve say the same thing but the underlying reasons are different -- the left says it because they act from instincts but have no idea why they act that way, the right knows why they act that way which is why they act by instinct. Is it the right way around though? Do we act from instinct first and then analyze or are we able to act from instinct because we've analyzed first. Help me understand this. I'd be curious to know how the Loevinger's 9 stages of ego development fits into this.