One heuristic to cure your shiny object syndrome: profit margin.

Most business don’t have more profit, they have the same profit margin or less of any other business -- it’s just the amount of resources.

Same thing just with more zeroes.

[[Prosperity over growth]]

Meaning that it doesn’t get easier to make more money, it gets harder.

More profit means more work. More resources for the same thing.

More work for same yield. Be wary of yield. Ask yourself can I get a higher yield in what I’m currently doing?

Do that before you start jumping onto the next opportunity. 

% yield often exposes the real work needed to become successful.

Look at the average profit margins for an industry.

Casinos on average have a profit margin of 36%.

You want to be in one where average profit margin is above 40%.

And look at it over time too - ideally you balance long term and short term.

100% of nothing < 10% of something

So what do you go after:

- Earning potential 
- Time
- Stress tolerance 
- Upfront capital 



- Lifestyle businesses generate revenue as soon as they start. 
- Growth businesses don’t generate income immediately, but can be scaled massively. 
- Value businesses generate revenue immediately but require lots of capital to start and grow. 

  

Figure out which one you want to build.


Relative versus absolute numbers:

- Profit margin is relative (it's a percentage)
- Actual profit is absolute

Think about real estate 

—


get your income to burn ratio 3:1 and start multiplying. You MUST leverage inflation to profit FROM IT or you will be killed BY IT.

