The story in the US is one of: 

1. the distain for technological progress, and 
2. the inability to accept any form of risk. 

Both limit progress in meaningful ways. It has become acceptable to believe that if anything bad thing happens at all, we should halt all progress. But when we look at the cost-benefit tradeoff of new technology, we should be focusing on making progress on many new technologies at an accelerated pace. Those who stop things from moving forward do so because 

1. they're rootly afraid of new technology, 
2. regulatory capture/ incumbency leads to concerted efforts to shut down disruption of any sort. The West is denying itself the opportunity to realize progress because certain actors deem any loss unacceptable... 

In the backlash against new technology, we lose our appetite for risk, we lose our tolerance for any incremental loss, and we lose perspective on the fact that said loss is far far far outweighed by the gains from getting new technology into market faster. There is always a cost for progress to be made, to move things forward. We have to have some degree of loss and some tolerance for risk as we try and make progress with our species. Technology always is going to have setbacks; it's always going to have mistakes. But if the net benefit far outweighs those mistakes we have to be willing to accept it and get everyone to take a broader perspective on what we're doing. This isn't just about maintaining status quo and not getting hurt; this is about the great benefits we get from moving things forward. We've lost that in such a profound way over the last 50 years in Western culture... Being anti-tech and anti-progress are luxury beliefs. 

Stagnation is acceptable to those whose lives are already comfortable. It is this idea that "I don't want to have my precious things changed", while the benefits from said change accrue primarily to the poorest people in the world. The improvement that's driven by technology and has been for 10,000 years mostly accrues to the poorest people in society first and that's the problem. All those in charge, who are rich. who are elite, who have power, have the luxury of maintaining the status quo. You see this exact same story in every area of technology: rocket launches, nuclear, challenge trials, autonomous cars, etc.. The wealthy industrialized West has lost its risk tolerance and as a result, we are hurting ourselves and we're also limiting the intelligence and energy to make technology and progress that could benefit the whole world. I think it's it's really profoundly sad and I hope that we one day look back at this era as almost like pseudo-Dark Ages and we wake the f*ck up someday and recognize that we need to take some degree of risk and have some tolerance in the pursuit of progress.